Project title: Classroom Management System in using Android of Patria Sable Corpus 
College – Senior High School Department

INTRODUCTION
In advent of technology, communication becomes faster and easier in a tap of a fingertip. 
In an academic institution, communication between parents and school is very challenging 
and important one. One of the worries of the parents is that if their children are really 
attending their class period. And with that monitoring is one of the great responsibilities 
of a teacher. Attendance Monitoring System with SMS is a kind of system that will inform 
the parent about the attendance of the student. The system functionalities are done in all
 transaction and the system will be useful in the disseminating information, and will 
surely help the parents in monitoring their children anytime and anywhere without worries. 
This is especially useful when parents are Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) and using the 
internet is the most cost effective way to monitor their child. Reports may also be 
generated such as attendance history. 

SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The proposed system provides solution to lecture attendance problems through the use of
Classroom Management System that is interfaced to the server. The students and teacher 
will have to install the respective apk files developed for them on their android devices.
At first, the student enters his/ her details in the system through the application.
The student also enters his/her parent’s details. Every student is given
a unique student id and they have their password. The student enters this Id and other 
personal details (Name,Grade, Strand, and Semester etc). The student then
log’s on into his account.The teacher, on his/her device, fills the details. The
faculty members too, are assigned unique faculty id. They too have to enter their details
and all the data is recorded in the database. After this, the teacher, activates the
application that is on the server and only when the application is active, the student 
can mark the attendance by one click. The teacher can then generate reports by a
single click. The teacher will also have the access to the list of students attending
the lecture and can even modify the list if required. Reports can be generated as and when
required. Facility is provided to generate weekly as well as monthly reports. At the end of 
the month, SMS’s can be sent to the parents/guardians of the students, thus informing them 
about their wards attendance.

OBJECTIVES: 
1.	To let the parent monitor their child using a real-time notification through SMS.
2.	To improve visibility to track and manage student attendance, absenteeism and lateness.
3.	To update the students about the different activities of the school through SMS.
4.	To notify the students about the schedule of exam.
5.	To let the students check their grades online.
